today friend of the devil highly
controversial song at least among
certain groups so but not among folk
guitar players great song got to
understand a little bit about the major
scale we'll talk about that in the
theory talk up a little bit and
otherwise it's just kind of a folk
bluegrass e-types from and song so what
will work on in this is hitting bass
notes and strumming just a very simple
pattern at that again is very common in
country songs and bluegrass songs and
bluegrass is usually done very quickly
the original recording of this on
american beauty came out in 1970 and so
to make this all work we start the g in
the base on the fourth string at the 5th
fret like looked a little bit in the in
the close up in the left hand and I'm
holding the high-g again with my index
finger and now that strumming pattern
just bass down up in a different base
note and a down up that's all what's
going on in the right hand for this
again very short chapter on the right
hand this time because it's based down
up bass down up if you're not if the
base is not moving through the through
the major scale where you're just
playing you're just alternating bass
notes like that's what's happening on
the D chord so from the beginning of the
song we have the descending major scale
and again I'm playing that with my first
finger on the high G my third finger on
the G on the 5th fret of the 4th or the
D string
get a strong then my second finger comes
in hits the f-sharp
you